LolimintiFollow--1ListenShareHow to take beautiful photos of legs for a blog? Usually I do creative portraits or bright make-up for my social networks, but sometimes I photograph my legs. Why? I like it!Its unusual, unconventional, beautiful. The blog posts look diverse, not just my face. But taking such photos is not as easy as it may seem to a beginner in photography and posing. Sometimes you need the help of an assistant to take an uncomfortable pose or press the button of a camera that is far away. I take almost all the photos myself, using a remote control for the camera, a tripod and a small amount of luck felix felicis! Of course, it is socks, pantyhose, gaiters, stockings of unusual colors and textures. I wear gaiters almost the whole summer season, I have more than seven pairs. You can order these on Chinese websites, buy them in holiday paraphernalia stores or those specializing in the sale of pantyhose. For example, I have cute striped, warm knitted, neon nylon gaiters and many others. Different textures and colors look amazing in the photo! And, of course, I have a huge number of pantyhose and socks in a mesh. Recently I also ordered Korean white small socks with lace, its charming and cute! I have warm knitted long socks with pompoms for a winter photo. Neon pink gaiters I prepared for the flowering period of apple trees. Socks with funny inscriptions or drawings? Give me two!Which shoes to choose? Naturally, trampled teenage shoes or sneakers yellowed by old age will not work good! It is the massive, necessarily clean shoes that look interesting. Or vintage, designer, creative, weird, incredibly fashionable and expensive. In general, the one in which you are unlikely to walk in ordinary life.If you planned photoshoot outside the house, be sure to bring wet wipes to clean shoes for the frame. You can, of course, take shoes for photo, as an extra, and put them on only at the location. If shoes or sneakers have irreparable external flaws, they can be retouched after photoshooting.At home, you can create a similar photo on any background! These can be beautiful laminate or wooden floor, tile, steps, silk sheet, beautiful vintage carpet, just against the background of monochrome wallpaper. I have been taking photos of my feet on a special background for photographers for a long time, which is waterproof and doesnt gather into folds from the pressure of heavy and hard soles of shoes.If you planned the photo on the street or nature, then we choose the background wisely. We look after the background and the location carefully. You can take a glove with you to remove excess trash and twigs from the frame. Dont forget to bring a small blanket or a book, if you need to pose sitting on the ground, it will be warmer and safer for you (or the model). It will be quite easy to disguise such a secret under your feet. Even an ordinary lawn with grass or flowers will look amazing!This is a magic of your imagination! I like to fill the frame with fresh flowers and neon lights, but these attributes are my vision of such a photo and my aesthetics. You can also choose books, headphones, fruits, figurines, artificial flowers, drawings, and brushes etc. What do you want to show? Even such a photo can tell a story or raise a social problem! To all of the above, you may need an additional light source. I have two soft boxes, sometimes light for filming or a color spotlight, but even in natural light you can take a picture of something cool!It is quite difficult to photograph the legs yourself from the hands, because the proportions are distorted. That is why you will need a tripod or an assistant. The main thing is to show the assistant how you see the finish photo, it can be self-drawn references or image boards made from Pinterest pictures.With the help of visual example, you will be able to explain to any person (if he isnt a photographer) what kind of frame he should create. Next, you put out the props, power the light and settings on the camera. With the many attempts, you will see the result you wanted definitely!I didnt like my legs at all before. I havent cool muscular relief, beautiful and smooth skin. So, I tried to wear closed clothes always, constantly hiding a part of myself. I didnt even think that I would create such nice photos! Due to knee injuries in the sports section, I couldnt train my muscles properly, so the thigh in relation to the body was unreasonably larger in my eyes. And I wear gaiters, because I'm scarred to my legs from a bicycle and falls on the asphalt in a restless childhood.The fascination with this kind of photography showed me my legs on the other side and allowed me to love them for what they are. Maybe you need this too?Thanks for reading! With best wishes, yourLoliminti----1Original cosplay. Photo tips. Creating props for photoshoot. Creative everyday life of a photographer from Russia with love!Loliminti--1Loliminti--1Loliminti--1Loliminti--1Unbecoming--917Mirijam Missbichler--144AL Anany--103Scott-Ryan AbtinPitfall--210The Bold ItalicinThe Bold Italic--173Nick Wignall--319HelpStatusWritersBlogCareersPrivacyTermsAboutText to speechTeams