Michael KoveFollow--ListenShareThere are rules of the system. You must follow the rules and ignore the theatrics the system puts on for itself.Nobody is going to tell you those rules. You have to observe them, analyze the world and watch for patterns.Step outside and get a macro view.Get the big picture.See the levers that the system is using.Who is pulling those levers?Why? Who benefits?Look for order in chaos. Look for the chain of command. Understand where the power is.Who answers to who?Every situation has power dynamics. Watch for the leaders and followers. Watch for alphas and betas, especially, when two powerful leaders are talking. One is not like the other.Observe interaction of influencers of the system. Some are also Rulers, but behind the closed door  youll find Magicians.Look at the people who listen to them. Watch how those influence the masses.Can you lure some of them to your side? Can you persuade them with logic? Emotions?Embrace personalities that believe Power is position of service. Appoint them in charge, but never, above you.Is the system, youre part of, bothering you?What emotions are you feeling?Grab a hold of your emotions and understand why they surface. The system will not let you progress, unless you hold yourself in place.Remember, the system is vicious and will not stop for anyone. You either design the system, follow the system or get eaten up by the system.Most are the later.The system isnt designed to suppress or put down ones that follow the procedures and rules. You respect the game and the game will respect you.To get to the top of the system  you must walk through its hierarchy by taking responsibility. You take the responsibility for the next available opening in the system up the chain. Grab it.Leadership isnt given, its taken.Once youre up, ensure that the system below is functional and orderly. Dont leave the mess behind and make sure that your followers get to play too.When your spot opens up  someone needs to take it, otherwise the system will collapse down. If it happens, you failed to take care of the system  it will punish your brutally.If there isnt a qualified successor, you will collapse down.If you fail to take responsibility for a higher level of leadership, someone else will. They will do it by stepping over your head.You might not have another chance or you might have to work through a different pathway to the top. The leader above you can change the rules. What seemed to work earlier will no longer work.You need to re-adjust, analyze and update your procedures.As Ruler of the system, you take care of both, ones below and ones above. By being a good player and not having issues at the bottom, you relay to the chain of command above that you are a capable successor.And by managing the system below, you prepare yourself for the next leap.Take the leadership the moment there is a chance.System will not wait.The common gears  most of participants of the system  dont understand the process, rules and chain of command.They either, naively, expect for the system to hand them the goods, or they find their corner and stay put.Youre not like them and never listen to them.Even if you see nothing wrong with their position, you know, its never enough for you. Otherwise youd never read this far.The system is topless.----Whos got time for that.Unbecoming--917AL Anany--103Jude Ellison S. Doyle--238Nick Wignall--319Kim Witten, PhD--167Scott-Ryan AbtinPitfall--210HelpStatusWritersBlogCareersPrivacyTermsAboutText to speechTeams