Zainik LabFollow--ListenShareWhen it comes to deciding where to sell their products online There are many sellers who choose between selling through the marketplace or developing their own website. Each has their own pros and cons, and theres no one-size-fits-all solution that will work for every person  we think those who are committed to e-commerce should have their own site.Naturally the marketplaces (like Amazon, Etsy eBay, eBay and Walmart Marketplace) are excellent ways to sell for many businesses but they have a lot of drawbacks. According to Big Commerces history of Ecommerce Customers are expected to soon be capable of research and shop, browse and buy seamlessly across different devices and platforms (like an independent web store as well as an Amazon presence, etc. )  but a marketplace on its own isnt enough.Discover why a separate e-commerce website is vital in order for your business to thrive in the long haul.One of the major benefits of having the website you want to have is that it allows you to direct your marketing efforts to customers and visitors. Contrary to marketplaces, where the people who purchase your product are the buyers of the marketplace selling directly to customers on your site means that you will be able to gather the details of their contacts. If you have customers contact details, you are able to send them marketing emails offering discounts, or present new products.Being able to get repeat customers is more difficult when youre selling on market since there is no an immediate connection to clients. This means you have less opportunities to provide excellent customer service as well as promote the other items you offer. Since its cheaper and easier to keep a customer in your business than to acquire new ones, communicating with current customers is an integral aspect of making money for your company.If you are selling your product through the market, they are listed in a generic fashion. From word limit restrictions or character count limitations to logo usage There is almost any room for personalization or branding. In reality, its the brand of the market that is the most prominent not your own. This makes it almost impossible to establish brand recognition and awareness.A majority of the time customers and visitors think that your product belongs in the market without knowing that they even exist. Also, people who purchase your product be able to remember the marketplace, not your company.Owning your own eCommerce website can help you gain a better understanding of your customers. This includes demographics like their location and the way they came across your site and learned about your business. You can track their actions on your website, including what they browsed through and the route they followed to purchase from you.If you have certain sources of traffic that bring in high-quality customers to your company You can decide to concentrate your efforts on them and invest more money into these channels because you are aware theyre profitable.You can not only gain details about your current customers and their preferences, but you also find out about the places people who werent purchasing a product dropped off. Perhaps its a page for products which doesnt have enough user reviews or photos that are good enough Perhaps shoppers are abandoning their carts because of high costs for shipping.When operating your own e-commerce store is the opportunity to influence more directly the user experience and customer experience.With the advent of out-of-the-box eCommerce platforms such as Shopify, Magento, Squarespace as well as Woo Commerce making your own website is an easy and quick procedure. With store builders plugins that make managing your small business simpler than ever. Enter your personal information to select inexpensive or free templates and design the shopping experience you desire for your customers at a moments notice by using website builders that allow users to drag and drop e-commerce store features to suit your needs.A number of the online platforms that are available today are hosted and simple to manage, and no web designer or web development team required. These tools for DIY allow you to easily modify content, add products, or make other modifications by yourself.----Creative Digital Agency. We design and develop useable products to grow our customers business.Zainik Lab--Zainik Lab--Zainik Lab--Zainik Lab--Adham DannawayinUX Planet--137AL Anany--103Dmitry KruglovinBetter Programming--48Sara Vegazo--4Jeff DavidsoninPrototypr--158Al Imran Ahmed--HelpStatusWritersBlogCareersPrivacyTermsAboutText to speechTeams