Asifa AdnanFollow--ListenShareStart your enterprise journey without bothering about technological details and caveats  focus on your own business instead. Gladden your clients globally with a single interface of SMS API gateway that is authorized by over 180,000 enterprises and developers.In the digital world, SMS has become an extension of a software providers solution, the preference of providers for an API integration becomes less about the SMS and more about what is endowing your business.Lets review what reasons our clients shared as they moved their SMS business to Rivet.Capacity planningOne gambling customer summarized that if there was a large send to go out because of a nationwide event they desired to promote then they ought to highlight this to their earlier supplier to assure the messages could go out, indicating a lot of practice before the event itself. With a technology stack that sends hundreds of SMS per second, that bulky activity has gone away.Innovation & associationsHow many businesses are excited about invention, though behind the scenes, they partner with mediocre SMS suppliers? As well as direct connections with UAE network providers, we also have relations with leading providers of other digital messaging channels.Receive text messages onlineSMS API gateway authorizes you to receive text messages from an inbox with our inbound SMS API. Using your API key, you can get the most delinquent messages from one or more inboxes. Messages can either be returned as either JSON or XML for easy inclusion in your app, CRM, or system.Fully supported SMS gatewayRivet SMS API code and your API key is used to start sending and receiving text messages in minutes. Our API gateway is fully supported with precise documentation and full developer SMS code examples.Manage your account using our clever API featuresUsing SMS API, you can do much more than just send and receive text messages. You can be able to contact, generate or delete contact groups, create reply forward SMS rules, form a short URL, recover SMS or MMS balances, and retrieve message reports. Rivets SMS API is the most versatile and flexible API gateway on the planet. Sign up for an API key and try our gateway in minutes.What distinguishes Rivet from competitor?When you compete with other software providers, you may share a model of forwarding thinking and solution innovation. However, what you need to back this up with is an aligned supplier that offers this same vision.Our Platinum Partner Operator status ensures the highest quality text service at up to 8,000 messages a second. Whats more, our SMS API can personalize messages, acquire delivery receipts, and planned messages, and pull results from mobile forms and surveys into your app. Our SMS gateway can also handle tickets, allowing you to send personal vouchers or tickets. Try sending a message using our Rivet SMS API gateway today.If you want to fortify your business with SMS API gateway solutions. So, what are you waiting for? Contact Rivet today and see how our expertise can take your business efficiency to the next level.----Asifa Adnan--Asifa Adnan--Asifa Adnan--Asifa Adnan--Love SharmainByteByteGo System Design Alliance--54Dmitry KruglovinBetter Programming--46Unbecoming--894Jacob BennettinLevel Up Coding--100The PyCoachinArtificial Corner--567The Coding DiariesinThe Coding Diaries--134HelpStatusWritersBlogCareersPrivacyTermsAboutText to speechTeamsNew Delhi Space Society NSSFollow--ListenShareWritten by Ashvin Verma, President of New Delhi Space Society, and edited by Rudraneel Sinha, Vice President of New Delhi Space Society. Both have participated extensively in space settlement design contests, and want to share all theyve learnt about.Humanity will soon embark on a long, arduous journey towards living among the stars, starting with NASAs Artemis mission to return to the Moon, this time to stay. But are there any challenges that make these missions substantially different from our past missions? After all, weve been to the Moon many times, and individuals have stayed in the ISS for years.I consider space radiation protection to be such a challenge, along with the technology for complete self-sufficiency for space settlements, and avoiding medical consequences of living in non-Earth gravity. Ill be looking at the problem of radiation here, on why we need radiation protection, old and new ways of accomplishing it, with a focus on modern and futuristic passive shielding methods, and challenges that lie ahead.Put simply, radiation is energy that travels through space either as light (photons) or matter (electrons, neutrons, etc.). Though popular media and cultural situations have attached a terrifying connotation to the term, radiation is not really unfamiliar to us, we just often neglect the unharmful kinds around us. Your microwave oven uses microwave radiation to heat food up, your phone uses radio waves to communicate, and even the light from bulbs and screens is a form of radiation; but then why can we mostly use these devices safely in our daily lives, but not waltz out into space with a zorbing ball?https://forms.gle/xwbRGFx9fGyASD5B9The key lies in the strength of the radiation; the radiation from our daily surroundings is mostly pretty weak and we dont particularly need any protection, except some sunscreen for UV light, whereas the radiation in space is fairly strong and said to be ionizing, i.e. it can penetrate and rip apart atoms and materials (blocked for us by our friendly neighbourhood planetary magnetic field). These include X-rays, gamma rays, electrons, and neutrons. The central issue is that ionizing radiation causes irreversible damage to our cells and DNA, and drastically increases the odds of cancer, and other diseases [1].Currently, our knowledge about radiation comes from two major sources: 1) A-bomb survivors who received high radiation doses in a short period, and 2) astronauts who received low radiation doses over a longer period. Their effects range from radiation burns to cataracts and infertility to heart disease and, very often, various forms of cancer unfortunately. The chance of experiencing these effects, and often how severe it becomes, depends highly on the radiation dose received, measured in Sieverts.Now, if we consider any spot in our solar system far from a planet, we find lots of ionizing radiation from nearby stars and galaxies (Galactic Cosmic Radiation) and high-energy particles from the sun (solar wind) acting as a source of constant bombardment, leading to an exposure of over 350 milliSieverts in a year for an average human[2]. For this reason, in missions with a time-span of years or even human lives, it is necessary to minimize the risk of developing radiation-related illnesses and injuries in space to a minimum or almost zero. This is achieved mostly through radiation shielding.Firstly, there are two types of radiation shields, firstly, we have active shields which use energy to repel radiation, and secondly, there are passive shields that use an assortment of materials to absorb and defend against radiation, though in real applications, only passive shields have proven to be practical.Finally, coming to the ways passive radiation shields work, we first need to decide what it does exactly. A shield needs to stop a spectrum of different kinds of radiation while not producing much secondary radiation in the process (more on that later). Now, we can go through possible shielding mechanisms, discuss how they fulfill these objectives, and figure out the basics of radiation shielding design:Firstly, we have the intuitive approach, what you might picture when imagining how to stop something from coming through: a wall. And that is somewhat effective, true. We can use a thick layer of a material to block radiation, just like how concrete walls in our house block light and WiFi signals (partially). We have actually been doing something similar for decades by using leadin medical facilities, nuclear power plants, and military equipment, and it works pretty great. Lead is an amazing absorber of high-energy radiation, namely X-rays and gamma rays, because of its packed and dense nucleus, and corresponding high atomic number. So why isnt it the solution to our problems?Of course, one factor is that lead is toxic, but thats not really an important concern as long as it's sandwiched between other materials and theres no direct exposure. There is another catch though: these same properties make it a poor shield for other types of radiation, including high-speed electrons (beta radiation), which rip the shield apart and actually create more radiation than what had hit the shield to begin with, through a domino effect. This secondary radiation produced through the collision of radiation with the shield is called bremsstrahlung radiation, high-energy photons zipping through space.On the other hand, light and low atomic number elements and compounds like waterthe stark opposite of leadare fantastic at avoiding secondary radiation and absorbing neutron and electron radiation. Theyre not good at absorbing gamma and X-rays, though, so they arent a complete solution to our problems either.Concrete is actually a quite economical and commonly available material that functions as a decent radiation shield, having water, cement, and heavy metal ions, but its weight makes it prohibitive to use in space applications.Why use only one material though, when you need the properties of multiple to truly be safe in space?After all, as the renowned scientist Rosalie Bertell once said,there is no safe level of exposure to ionising radiation, and the search for quantifying such a safe level is in vain.A low-cost but heavy alternative for usage on our moon, Luna, maybe the lunar regolith, or lunar ground material a few meters deep, which has a fine mix of compounds which can be made into lunar concrete, lunarcrete, and act as a simple radiation shield. This has been explored as a viable option for future lunar bases.[3]But we must have an efficient and practical solution for spacecraft and settlements which orbit or travel through space, which is exactly what engineers and scientists have come up with.After decades of experimentation, scientists figured out a way to combine the properties of materials, inventing the Graded-Z shield: a stack of materials in decreasing order of their atomic numbers. This provides balanced protection across types of radiation, while the secondary radiation produced by the first few elements is absorbed by successive low atomic number elements. Its up to 60% more effective than single-material shielding.[4]Usual combinations start with heavier elements like lead, to copper and aluminium, and sometimes light hydrogen compounds, including boron carbide and potentially Boron Nitride Nanotubes.Its not perfect though; its somewhat thick and requires many layers, increasing manufacture and transportation complexity. But we can do better.But theres another clever way to combine the properties of different materials: mixing them together in the same layer.Scientists are doing this through a process of doping higher-Z materials in an epoxy resin matrix of low-Z materials. Phew, that was a mouthful. But all that really means is that they are dispersing particles of heavier elements (such as tungsten) in the spaces between the polymer solids of lighter elements (such as high-density polyethylene). These are lightweight, and have amazing physical and radiation protection properties.[5]These composite-Z, and more advanced graded-composite-Z, shields currently need a whole lot more development and testing, but they seem promising for our future in space.These incremental developments of technology push us faster towards a brighter future, when after waking up, we can safely look out and see a world different from the one we were born on. And, perhaps, you can play a part in making that happen.Feel like joining a like-minded group of space enthusiasts and scientists? Join New Delhi Space Society here: https://forms.gle/xwbRGFx9fGyASD5B9[1] Christensen, D. M., Iddins, C. J., & Sugarman, S. L. (2014). Ionizing Radiation Injuries and Illnesses. Emergency Medicine Clinics of North America, 32(1), 245265. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.emc.2013.10.002[2] Globus, A. (2017). Radiation Paper. Al Globus. http://space.alglobus.net/papers/RadiationPaper.pdf[3] Meurisse, A., Cazzaniga, C., Frost, C., Barnes, A., Makaya, A., & Sperl, M. (2020). Neutron radiation shielding with sintered lunar regolith. Radiation Measurements, 132, 106247. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.radmeas.2020.106247[4] Fan, W. C., Drumm, C. R., Roeske, S. B., & Scrivner, G. J. (1996). Shielding considerations for satellite microelectronics. https://doi.org/10.1109/23.556868[5] More, C. V., Alsayed, Z., Badawi, M. S., Thabet, A. A., & Pawar, P. P. (2021). Polymeric composite materials for radiation shielding: a review. Environmental Chemistry Letters, 19(3), 20572090. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10311-021-01189-9----The New Delhi Space Society (NDSS) is a non-profit organisation of aerospace enthusiasts consisting of high school and university studentsNew Delhi Space Society NSS--New Delhi Space Society NSS--New Delhi Space Society NSS--New Delhi Space Society NSS--Unbecoming--894Nick Wignall--296Zulie RaneinThe Startup--895Tomas Pueyo--81The PyCoachinArtificial Corner--567Karen NimmoinOn The Couch--54HelpStatusWritersBlogCareersPrivacyTermsAboutText to speechTeamsAlex MarkFollow--ListenShareBitcoin cards work exactly like regular debit cards with one important difference: you can withdraw funds from your card wherever you have access to the internet. Most bitcoin debit cards let you make direct transfers from your card to anyone with a bitcoin address. This makes it easy to send money without relying on a banks address book or transfer limits. People also find this useful when withdrawing cash from ATMs  instead of entering their bank information, they can directly access their account balance via the card number and PIN code.create virtual card with bitcoinVirtual wallets also protect your bitcoin investments from theft or loss. Instead of keeping your passwords in a safe, you control access by assigning users temporary access codes called PINs or passwords. Each time someone uses the code, they gain limited access to your funds until you reset it yourself. This way no one knows your password but anyone can easily gain temporary access to your account.Bitcoin is an exciting new digital currency that has lots of potential uses in the real world. Creating easy access to bitcoin wallets drives adoption because people no longer need banks as intermediaries between them and their money. Virtual wallets let anyone quickly and easily use bitcoins wherever theyre accepted as a payment method. And creating accessible wallet codes protects your bitcoins whenever someone obtains physical access to your wallet file.----Alex Mark--Alex Mark--Alex Mark--Alex Mark--Unbecoming--896Shelaf.net--4Zulie RaneinThe Startup--896Linda CarollinThe Partnered Pen--354The PyCoachinArtificial Corner--567Degen Venture - Best Confirmed Airdrops --7HelpStatusWritersBlogCareersPrivacyTermsAboutText to speechTeams